Updates Running-a-server.md to cover DNS SRV support (#874)
jamulussoftware/jamulussoftware.github.io: wiki/en/Running-a-Server.md

> Most domestic internet connections change their external IP address after a short period. To avoid problems with this, you might want to set up "dynamic DNS" to get a static (sub-)domain you can share with others. Please research how to do that for your specic set up. Your router might support some "dynamic DNS" providers out of the box. If this is not the case, set up a dynamic DNS client as described by the dynamic DNS provider you chose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your IP address might be fixed now by your ISP. But some internet connections change your IP address, even daily. If your IP address does change regularly, you can set up "dynamic DNS" to get a static domain (or sub-domain) you can share with others. Your router might provide support for some "dynamic DNS" providers. If this is not the case, you can set up a dynamic DNS client by following their instructions.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how common it is to _force_ a change.  Maybe "Some" would be better than "Most"?  Or the more technically accurate: "Unless you have agreed in your ISP contract to have a fixed IP address, then you may find that your address changes over time."

Reviewer 3: Since this isn't part of this PR, but is [part of mine](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamuluswebsite/pull/875), I can update it there to avoid conflicts here.

## DNS SRV record support

> Jamulus client 3.10.0 onwards supports [DNS SRV records ("service" records)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record). If Jamulus client finds a SRV record associated with the domain name given in the Connect window, it will try to connect to the endpoint host and port given in the SRV record. It's similar to a HTTP redirect in a web browser, only it's between Jamulus client and the DNS server. Jamulus server is not involved in this transaction, other than listening for connections on the same port given in the SRV record.

Reviewer 2: I'd avoid mention of version numbers.  The change will be merged to release when the relevant release of Jamulus is available.

Reviewer 4: Hmm, actually it was me who suggested adding the version. We do not provide docs for older versions, do we?

For most features it's quite obvious if the docs match the installed version (e.g. the GUI shows the feature or a CLI flag works or doesn't). For this feature, the only sane way for checking availability is the version.

I was mainly hoping to avoid "this doesn't work" support threads.

Reviewer 2: My view is "We only support the current release version".  So if anyone tries "It doesn't work" without stating their version, the first question is "What version?".  Until the Jamulus version supporting the feature is released, the updated docs aren't on "release", they should be on "next-release" - for that reason.

> Jamulus client 3.10.0 onwards supports [DNS SRV records ("service" records)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record). If Jamulus client finds a SRV record associated with the domain name given in the Connect window, it will try to connect to the endpoint host and port given in the SRV record. It's similar to a HTTP redirect in a web browser, only it's between Jamulus client and the DNS server. Jamulus server is not involved in this transaction, other than listening for connections on the same port given in the SRV record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jamulus client supports [DNS SRV records ("service" records)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record). If Jamulus client finds a SRV record associated with the domain name given in the Connect window, it will try to connect to the endpoint host and port listed in the SRV record. This process is similar to an HTTP redirection in a web browser, only it's between Jamulus client and the DNS server. Jamulus server is not involved in this interaction. Jamulus server just listens for connections on the same port listed in the SRV record.
```

Reviewer 2: As noted, this is starting from the next Jamulus release - we don't need to mention a version number.

#### Why is this helpful?

> Jamulus client can connect to a server on a non-standard port by specifying the port as part of the server address. However, a server administrator may want to give users a simple address without the port information, while still serving Jamulus on a non-standard port. For this case, the port information can be acquired from a SRV record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jamulus client can connect to a server on a non-standard port by specifying the port as part of the server address. A server administrator may want to give users a simple address without the port details, while still serving Jamulus on a non-standard port. For this case, the port information can be acquired from a SRV record.
```

> For example, an address given in Jamulus client Connect window could look like ```jamulus.mydomain.com```. If a DNS SRV record is found for this domain, Jamulus client will try to connect to Jamulus server on the host:port given in the SRV record ```jamulus.mydomain.com:12345```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, an address given in Jamulus client Connect window could look like ```jamulus.mydomain.com```. If a DNS SRV record is found for this domain, Jamulus client will try to connect to Jamulus server on the host:port listed in the SRV record, such as ```jamulus.mydomain.com:12345```.
```

If no SRV records are found on the DNS server, Jamulus client will attempt to connect to Jamulus server as specified in the connection window.

#### Creating SRV records

SRV records are created by the administrator of the domain being used to host the Jamulus server. The SRV records are added through the administration portal (or API if available) of the domain's DNS hosting service. The format of the SRV record entry can vary by DNS hosting service but will generally look something like this.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this section should also describe how hosting multiple Jamulus Servers on a single system would work, giving each its own "simple name".

~~~
  _service._proto.name. ttl IN SRV priority weight port target
  
  # or, more specifically
  
  _jamulus._udp.mydomain.com. 60 IN SRV 0 5 12345 jamulus.mydomain.com
~~~

> See the documentation of your DNS provider for instructions on creating SRV records for that provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Tip:** You can host many Jamulus Servers at different ports on one host by giving each its own SRV record.

See the documentation of your DNS provider for instructions on creating SRV records for that provider.
```

> See the documentation of your DNS provider for instructions on creating SRV records for that provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the documentation of your DNS provider for instructions on creating an SRV record for that provider.
```

> Most domestic internet connections change their external IP address after a short period. To avoid problems with this, you might want to set up "dynamic DNS" to get a static (sub-)domain you can share with others. Please research how to do that for your specic set up. Your router might support some "dynamic DNS" providers out of the box. If this is not the case, set up a dynamic DNS client as described by the dynamic DNS provider you chose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most residential internet connections change their external IP address after a short period. To avoid problems with this, you might want to set up "dynamic DNS" to get a static (sub-)domain you can share with others. Please research how to do that for your specic set up. Your router might support some "dynamic DNS" providers out of the box. If this is not the case, set up a dynamic DNS client as described by the dynamic DNS provider you chose.
```

Reviewer: Is this what's meant by _domestic_?

Reviewer 3: "Residential" is probably the better term, since "domestic" can also imply the opposite of "international".

## DNS SRV record support

> Jamulus client supports [DNS SRV records ("service" records)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record). If Jamulus client finds an SRV record associated with the domain name given in the Connect window, it will try to connect to the endpoint host and port listed in the SRV record. This process is similar to HTTP redirection in a web browser, only it's between Jamulus client and the DNS server. Jamulus server is not involved in this interaction. Jamulus server just listens for connections on the same port listed in the SRV record.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Jamulus clients support [DNS SRV records ("service" records)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record). If a Jamulus client finds an SRV record associated with the domain name given in the Connect window, it will try to connect to the endpoint host and port listed in the SRV record. This process is similar to HTTP redirection in a web browser, only it's between Jamulus clients and the DNS server. The Jamulus Server is not involved in this interaction. Jamulus Servers just listen for connections on the same port listed in the SRV record.
```

I think this should be checked for style again to be consistent to the other part of the page. Especially how we talk about Jamulus clients and Servers.

Reviewer 3: "Client" should be capitalised as well as Server here.

#### Why is this helpful?

> Jamulus client can connect to a server on a non-standard port by specifying the port as part of the server address. A server administrator may want to give users a simple address without the port details, while still serving Jamulus on a non-standard port. For this case, the port information can be acquired from an SRV record.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A Jamulus client can connect to a Server on a non-standard port by specifying the port as part of the server address. A server administrator may want to give users a simple address without the port details, while still serving Jamulus on a non-standard port. For this case, the port information can be acquired from an SRV record.
```

@pljones and @gilgongo had a discussion about Server vs server somewhere, I think. We should stay consistent.

Reviewer: I try to maintain consistency per-page, because differing conventions co-exist in this publication. Does this whole page capitalize Server, or naw?

Reviewer 5: I think so, but I'm not sure.

Reviewer 3: > I try to maintain consistency per-page, because differing conventions co-exist in this publication. Does this whole page capitalize Server, or naw?

I see the style guide is out of date on this, but as of a couple of releases ago, we capitalise "Server" when we mean the Jamulus software running in that mode This is to distinguish it from the machine on which it runs. Eg "I am running two Servers on my AWS server"

Client is also capitalised along with Directory to mark them out as Jamulus-specific terms.

> A Jamulus Client can connect to a Server on a non-standard port by specifying the port as part of the server address. A server administrator may want to give users a simple address without the port details, while still serving Jamulus on a non-standard port. For this case, the port information can be acquired from an SRV record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Jamulus Client can connect to a Server on a non-default port by specifying the port as part of the server address. A server administrator may want to give users a simple address without the port details, while still serving Jamulus on a non-default port. For this case, the port information can be acquired from an SRV record.
```

> An address given in the Connect window could look like ```jamulus.example.com```. If a DNS SRV record is found for this domain, Jamulus Client will try to connect to the Server on the host:port listed in the SRV record, such as ```jamulus.example.com:12345```.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An address entered in the Connect window could look like ```jamulus.example.com```. If an SRV record is found for this DNS domain, Jamulus Client will try to connect to the Server on the host:port listed in the SRV record, such as ```jamulus.example.com:12345```.
```

> For example, an address given in Jamulus client Connect window could look like ```jamulus.example.com```. If a DNS SRV record is found for this domain, Jamulus client will try to connect to Jamulus server on the host:port listed in the SRV record, such as ```jamulus.example.com:12345```.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
An address given in the Connect window could look like ```jamulus.example.com```. If a DNS SRV record is found for this domain, Jamulus client will try to connect to the Server on the host:port listed in the SRV record, such as ```jamulus.example.com:12345```.
```

Reviewer: We might describe the Connect window as "the Server Address field in the Connect window."

> If no SRV records are found on the DNS server, Jamulus client will attempt to connect to Jamulus server as specified in the connection window.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If no SRV records are found on the DNS server, a Jamulus client will attempt to connect to the Jamulus Server as specified in the connection window.
```

Reviewer 3: Capitalise "Client" here I think. Probably no need to say "Jamulus Server" if you say "Jamulus Client" earlier. Just "Server" will be OK.

#### Creating SRV records

SRV records are created by the administrator of the domain being used to host the Jamulus server. The SRV records are added through the administration portal (or API if available) of the domain's DNS hosting service. The format of the SRV record entry can vary by DNS hosting service but will generally look something like this.

~~~
  _service._proto.name. ttl IN SRV priority weight port target
  
  # or, more specifically
  

>   _jamulus._udp.mydomain.com. 60 IN SRV 0 5 12345 jamulus.mydomain.com

Reviewer 4: mydomain.com is a real domain/company. We should use the reserved example.com address instead. Applies to other places as well.

Edit: Removed my suggestion as it missed on occasion. @mcfnord's is better ;)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  _jamulus._udp.example.com. 60 IN SRV 0 5 12345 jamulus.example.com
```

~~~

> **Tip:** You can host many Jamulus Servers at different ports on one host by giving each its own SRV record.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Note:** You can host many Jamulus Servers at different ports on one host by giving each its own SRV record.
```
I think we use "Note" on other pages.

> See the documentation of your DNS provider for instructions on creating an SRV record for that provider.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
See the documentation of your DNS provider for instructions on creating an SRV record.
```

Is it really an SRV record not a SRV record?

Reviewer 3: Do you mean you're saying it "a serve record"? I thought it was "an ess arr vee record" :-)

#### Example use case with SRV records

> Assuming a DNS A or CNAME record resolves server1.example.com, and server1.example.com has three Jamulus server instances, each listening on one of the three specified ports below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example assumes a DNS A or CNAME record resolves ```server1.example.com```, and ```server1.example.com``` has three Jamulus server instances, each listening on one of the three specified ports below.
```

> This example assumes a DNS A or CNAME record resolves ```server1.example.com```, and ```server1.example.com``` has three Jamulus server instances, each listening on one of the three specified ports below.

Reviewer 5: I think this should be rephrased as the grammar seems strange (I'm not a native speaker.)

> This example assumes a DNS A or CNAME record resolves ```server1.example.com```, and ```server1.example.com``` has three Jamulus server instances, each listening on one of the three specified ports below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example assumes a DNS A or CNAME record resolving to ```server1.example.com```, which has three Jamulus server instances running on it, each listening on one of the three specified ports below.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example assumes the DNS contains an A or CNAME record that resolves to ```server1.example.com```, where three Jamulus Server instances are running, each listening on one of the three ports listed below.
```

> Alternatively, server1.example.com can be a router, NAT-gateway, or load-balancer that forwards each of the ports to a backend Jamulus server (or servers).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Alternatively, `server1.example.com` can be a router, NAT-gateway, or load-balancer that forwards each of the ports to a backend Jamulus server (or servers).
```

| JAMULUS CLIENT     |  DNS SRV RECORD                                                             | JAMULUS SERVER             |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| rock.example.com  |  _jamulus._udp.rock.example.com 300 IN SRV 0 5 22124 server1.example.com  | server1.example.com:22124 |
| jazz.example.com  |  _jamulus._udp.jazz.example.com 300 IN SRV 0 5 22125 server1.example.com  | server1.example.com:22125 |
| blues.example.com |  _jamulus._udp.blues.example.com 300 IN SRV 0 5 22126 server1.example.com | server1.example.com:22126 |

> *It's important to remember that DNS is not forwarding connections. It's simply telling Jamulus Client what public host:port to connect to.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*It's important to remember that DNS is not forwarding connections. It's only telling Jamulus Client what public host:port to connect to.*
```

## DNS SRV record support

> Jamulus client supports [DNS SRV records ("service" records)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record). If Jamulus client finds a SRV record associated with the domain name given in the Connect window, it will try to connect to the endpoint host and port listed in the SRV record. This process is similar to an HTTP redirection in a web browser, only it's between Jamulus client and the DNS server. Jamulus server is not involved in this interaction. Jamulus server just listens for connections on the same port listed in the SRV record.

Reviewer 2: Or maybe just drop the article (as it's conceptual):
```suggestion
Jamulus client supports [DNS SRV records ("service" records)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record). If Jamulus client finds a SRV record associated with the domain name given in the Connect window, it will try to connect to the endpoint host and port listed in the SRV record. This process is similar to HTTP redirection in a web browser, only it's between Jamulus client and the DNS server. Jamulus server is not involved in this interaction. Jamulus server just listens for connections on the same port listed in the SRV record.
```

Author: That all looks good, thanks. Would you like me to "Commit suggestion" as I did previously? I was worried that I'd jumped too quickly and made a mess for everyone else.

Reviewer 2: I think (I'm not sure... not used it) it commits to your branch in your repo...

Reviewer 3: Should be fine.
